Welcome back everyone in this lecture.
We're going to discuss edge detection.
We're going to specifically talk about the canny edge detector which is one of the most popular edge
detection algorithms.
It was developed in 1986 by John Kenney and it's actually a multi-stage algorithm so I'm going to quickly
show you the actual steps that happen internally with the county detection.
But when we actually implement it we don't really see that much of it.
We're just going to be a simple one line called Open.
So don't worry too much if you kind of don't understand all the steps since it's pretty high level just
seeing it in text instead of reading the full paper.
But if you're really interested in the multistage facet of the canny edge detector then check up the
resource link for the Wikipedia article which actually explains all these steps.
And then also the paper itself.
OK.
So it's going to briefly just show you and explain the steps that are taken.
The first step is detection is to apply a Gaussian filter to smooth out the image in order to remove
noise.
Keep in mind as we mentioned in the blurring and smoothing lecture when you're applying edge detection
on an image that has a lot going on in it maybe has lots of background noise or just a lot of background
features in a lot of foreground features you may end up detecting way too many edges.
So most likely you're going to have to apply your own smoothing and own blurring technique first before
the one that's built into the county as detection.
But just want to mention that.
So after you apply the Gaussian filter to smooth out the image what happens is you find the intensity
gradients of the image.
Then the next step in the county election process is the algorithm will apply non maximum suppression
to get rid of spurious response to edge detection then it's going to apply double threshold to the Terman
potential edges.
And that it's going to track edge by Mr. resus which is just going to finalizes the Tuckson of edges
by suppressing all the other edges that are weak and not connected to strong edges.
So essentially it's kind of a filtration process of getting rid of the weaker edges and only finding
the really strong ones.
Now keep in mind as I mentioned for high resolution images where you only want general edges it's usually
a good idea to play your own custom Blar before applying the Kenni algorithm.
And we're actually going to show that right now when we jump to the Jupiter notebook.
Keep in mind the Keni algorithm also requires a user to decide on low and high threshold values in our
notebook.
We're going to provide an equation for picking a good starting point for threshold values.
But often depending on the image you're probably going to need to manually adjust that low and high
threshold just to see what looks good and what it just makes sense to you.
So it is a bit of a manual process at first in deciding that low and high threshold values but hopefully
the equation we provide gives you a good starting point.
OK.
Let's begin exploring all of this in Jupiter lab.
OK so here I am in my Jupiter notebook and I went ahead and ran the several imports that we usually
do.
And then what I'm going to do isn't going to read in the image.
And in this case the image I'm going to read in is him read and we're going to work with that puppydog
face which is Samis face that jpeg and let's go ahead and show that image in this case.
I'm not worrying about performing color correction on this image because I'm only performing edge detection.
I don't really care if the blue and red channels happen to be switched.
Let's first show you how you can run the canny edge detector and then we'll talk about different ways
to try to get better results if you want to just straight up run the Keni as the doctor just say C-v
to Dakini and then you provide the image you want to run it on.
And there's two main parameters there's threshold 1 and then there's threshold 2.
We're going to start off by just setting these both as the middle value of what a pixel can be.
So pixel going to be between zero and 225.
So we'll set them both to be the medium value and we'll see how that works.
So if we just show these edges we can already see right off the bat.
It tends to actually get the edge and general outline of the dog so I can see Sammie's ear here a little
bit of its mouth.
But it's also picking up a lot of edges that are probably just noise.
So there's two different approaches we can take to this and we're probably going have to use a combination
of both.
One is actually blurring the image to get rid of certain details and just get a general edge detection
and the other one is playing around with the threshold values and you can go ahead and just play around
the threshold values right now.
If you wanted to.
So we can make the min and max just 0 and 255 and see how that performs and you've probably noticed
that it also is a performance super great but it tends to actually pick up some stronger edges so there's
a little bit slight differences between these thresholds versus these ones in the middle.
But let's go ahead and show you a formula that may help you out for choosing a threshold in particular
after you've blurred the image.
This formula tends to work quite well.
So the first we're going to do is calculate the median pixel value.
So I won't say that the median value of my pixel is the median and then I get a pass in the image and
it looks like my median value is 64.
So it's actually not a super bright image or at least have very strong values in any particular color
that we get is that a lower bound threshold and the upper bound threshold essentially a threshold one
and Threshold two.
And the really common formula for detecting these thresholds is to actually just do a comparison between
the lowest possible versus some sort of percentage of the median value.
So you often see a formula like this integer of the max value between 0 and 70 percent of the median
value.
So what this is doing is it's saying Set the lower threshold to either 0 or 70 percent of the median
value is actually 30 percent below the median which ever is greater.
So zero right now that's our floor.
If this value 70 percent times the median value happens to be a little higher then we'll go ahead and
choose that one.
And that sets our lower threshold and we can do something really similar for the upper threshold except
we're going to go in the opposite direction.
We're going to set this to be the smaller between the absolute limit of 255 and then 1.3 or 30 percent
above the median value.
So the way three this one is the upper threshold so that either 130 percent of the median.
So 30 percent above the median or the max value of 255 which ever is smaller because if you go above
2 to 55 we no longer want to choose 1.3 times the median value.
Something to note here against 64.
That's a pretty low median value.
So we probably have to even adjust the upper limit a little higher.
Okay.
So we'll go ahead and run those thresholds and see if that improves anything in this case.
I don't believe it actually does.
So I'm going to copy and paste this candy edges command pasted in here and then we have threshold and
we're going to set that to lower and upper respectively go ahead and run that and actually look like
an improved anything.
In fact it's almost performing worse.
We can see here that's affecting way too many edges and you may want to do then is if you actually take
a look at the upper limit that's going to be 83 which is quite low.
So you may want to begin starting adjusting things like expanding the upper threshold limit to go higher
and higher.
So maybe as you go plus 100 begins to generalize a little bit more.
But really the thing that's actually going to help you here is blurring the image first.
So let's go ahead and blur that image and you can use any of the blurring techniques that we've learned
about already but but going to see we to blur and apply just a kernel to it.
So we'll say image and then the kernel size for the blurring kernel.
I will say that's a 5 by 5 and now I'm going to again copy and paste the edges but it's that I'm doing
it on my image.
I'm going to do it on my blurred image and I will use the upper and lower ones that I calculated earlier.
So I will say lower that upper.
So now when I run this and I see the edges now I'm definitely seeing the stronger edges of the dog's
face.
And in fact that's probably the best commonly seen so far.
If I compare to the other ones they're still picking up a lot of noise.
So compared to the original image the one that's really showing the strong edges of the dog's face is
this last one after we've been able to blur the image a little further.
And if you want you can then experiment also if the kernel side here you know maybe expand it.
See if that continues to blur the image until you only see what you're looking for.
And you can also do that expand maybe the upper limit here it's like 50 and so reduces kernel size.
That's a little too blurred.
Do a five by five there.
Run this and you can begin to have some sort of happy medium where the edges you want to detect without
detecting too much noise around it.
So again we can clearly see here the dogs face.
OK.
Main thing to know here is just call CB2 doc candy passing your image and then using these formulas
you can play around as good starting points of your lower and upper threshold but more likely than not
you should blur the image.
And then also play around the threshold them out until you see something satisfactory.
Thanks.
And we'll see you in the next lecture.